Full text of the IPR (Interplanetary Public Radio) interview with Rebecca Grace Knowles
 
HOST - Adrianna Grussman
GUEST - Rebecca Grace Knowles
 
GRUSSMAN. This is With a View; I'm Anna Grussman. Our guest tonight, Rebecca Grace Knowles, is a treasure hunter - one of those who mine the wreckage of derelict or abandoned ships. Such ships often contain valuable information, minerals, and 3D blueprints of unique structures. Alternately prized for their finds and reviled for their perceived trespassing, so-called "cherry pickers" like Ms. Knowles are a large part of why independent hardware developers are able to keep up with more massive and resourceful companies. Welcome to the program, Rebecca, we're so glad to have you.
 
KNOWLES. Glad to be here.
 
GRUSSMAN. I have a clip from a folk song that I'd like to play, to start out with. This is Janis Esch's version of "Quarry Man."

SONG:
...why, I'll fly out with the colonists
and land on Io's face.
I'd wend my way with cherry pickers
and hunt my way through space.
But I'll never sign that contract,
see, you've got to understand,
I may be a cheap old son-of-a-bitch
but I ain't no quarry man!...

GRUSSMAN. Can you explain some of the demographics that they're talking about there?

KNOWLES (laughing). Sure. Sure, I get that song all the time. In the two-year bars they set up Earthside, they play that all the time. 

GRUSSMAN. A two-year bar being a rest stop for space workers.

KNOWLES. Exactly. Yeah. A two-year bar is what they set up right outside the space elevator docks. The longer you're out in space, the weaker your bones get, the weaker your muscles get. So rather than dealing with a workforce of hyperaging men and women, most companies say, okay, you can work in space for three out of five years. Usually people do the three years consecutively, then stay completely wasted for the two years they're back on Earth, or wherever they may be.

GRUSSMAN. That's why they're called two-year bars, then?

KNOWLES. Exactly. That's right. 

GRUSSMAN. What is it about the quarry workers, though?

KNOWLES. Quarry workers are allowed to work seven out of ten years. Back when the rules were first being drawn up, the quarries were the most powerful businesses around, since the most immediate terrestrial application for space work was the raw materials we could get from Luna, Mars, and the asteroids. So they bent the - kind of unwritten rule and let their people stay out longer. 

GRUSSMAN. Why is that such a bad thing?

KNOWLES. Well, a cherry picker or a colonist, they get back from their three years and they're so Earth-drunk that they blow through the money they make by the time they can go back up. But a quarry worker will do their time and have set up good investments that can mature over the time they're up there. Space work pays a lot. It's really dangerous stuff. But they keep the colonists, Stellat, cherry pickers, all of us hooked with the short bursts, while a quarry worker can get in and out pretty cleanly.

GRUSSMAN. And that'd be harder for you to do, as a cherry picker.

KNOWLES. Exactly. Not impossible. Just harder. My sister and I are doing pretty well. We keep real careful tabs on the other so we don't get hooked like a bunch of the others do.

GRUSSMAN. What do you do when you're up there working?

KNOWLES. Sure. 









 
KNOWLES. I just want to clarify one thing right away - the "theft" idea, us being thieves, that's - that's just not true.
 
GRUSSMAN. How so?
 
KNOWLES. When the ships get left out in the open, at the end of their useful life cycles or what have you, the companies involved are basically saying that it'll be too much trouble or cost to use the fuel it'd take to incinerate them. They're basically trash left at the side of the road. And that's always been free for picking.
 
GRUSSMAN. But would you call yourself a trash picker?
 
KNOWLES. Why not? Every ecosystem needs its buzzards. I love it.
 
GRUSSMAN. So, tell us, how did you get started in this line of work?